# Magic Tattoos

>Blending magic and artistry with ink and needles, magic tattoos imbue their bearers with wonderous abilities.
The appearance of the tattoo is customizable, but it must be representative of the effect. For example, a masquerade tattoo could take the form of a mask, a chameleon, or any reasonable form the player comes up with and the DM agrees to.
The material used to make the needle should also be representative of the effect. For instance, a Spellwrought tattoo of water breathing might be applied with a fishbone needle.
All magical tattoos are permanent and only one tattoo can have its magical effect, with the exception of tattoos that have the same effect at varying levels. A first level Spellwrought tattoo can be upgraded to a fifth-level tattoo of the same type. This can be done by applying the process again and expanding the tattoo with embellishments, like adding a wave to a pre-existing fish tattoo, such as in the instance of a water breathing tattoo, to extend the effects duration.
The process of creating magical tattoos is a ritual spell that requires time for each stage, material components, and the application of the tattoo.

## Process
>Creating magic tattoos happens in three stages preparation, inculcation, and application.

### Preparation
The preparation phase is the process of gathering and preparing the material components needed for the application phase. All tattoos require two basic components: the ink(s) to be applied and the needle(s) to do the application. All tattoos also require extra components that change depending on the desired magical effect. These extra components usually require more of a time investment for their preparation. For example, if gold dust is a component and the cost is 5gp, the character would have to take the time to grind the 5 gold coins down for the application. If wyvern venom essence is a component, the character must take the time to distill out the poisonous components, making the venom safe for application. This process may have other benefits like being left with a wyvern poison concentrate that can be used for other purposes. The preparation may require an alchemy kit and proficiency or some other artisan tools as determined by the DM.

### Inculcation
The inculcation phase is where the magic happens. This is when the prepared components are imbued with the magical properties needed to transfer the effect to the wearer. The process requires some knowledge of the spell being imbued but that can come in any form. The artist or wearer might know the spell, be in possession of a spell scroll, or hire a third party caster with the knowledge necessary to take part in the process. The inculcation phase can be separate from or overlap with the other phases and may be applied to the ink(s), needle(s), wearer, or some combination of them, all at the DM's discretion.

### Application
The application phase is the process of the artist applying the tattoo to the wearer. This is usually the most time consuming part of the process and may have a temporary adverse effect on the artist and or wearer like piercing/psychic damage, levels of exhaustion, or any other effect, all at the DM's discretion.

## Tattoo Table
Type | Description | Components (Cost) | Time per phase
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
**Illuminator** | ***Magical Scribing*** While this tattoo is on your skin, you can write with your fingertip as if it were an ink pen that never runs out of ink. As an action, you can touch a piece of writing up to one page in length and speak a creature's name. The writing becomes invisible to everyone other than you and the named creature for the next 24 hours. Either of you can dismiss the invisibility by touching the script (no action required). Once used, this action can't be used again until the next dawn. | Gold Dust (5gp) | 1hr 10min 1.5hr
**Masquerade** | ***Fluid Ink*** As a bonus action, you can shape the tattoo into any color or pattern and move it to any area of your skin. Whatever form it takes, it is always obviously a tattoo. It can range in size from no smaller than a copper piece to an intricate work of art that covers all your skin. ***Disguise Self*** As an action, you can use the tattoo to cast the disguise self spell (DC 13 to discern the disguise). Once the spell is cast from the tattoo, it can't be cast from the tattoo again until the next dawn. | Diamond Dust (50gp) | 2hr 10min 1.5hr
**Spellwrought** (0) | This magic tattoo contains 5 charges of a cantrip. The Ability modifier for this spell is +3; the Save DC is 13 and the attack bonus is +5.. You can cast the spell using no material components and you regain all charges at dawn. | Silver Dust (5gp) | 1hr / 1.5hr / 1.5hr
**Spellwrought** (1) | This magic tattoo contains 3 charges of a 1st level spell. The Ability modifier for this spell is +3; the Save DC is 13 and the attack bonus is +5. You can cast the spell using no material components and you regain all charges at dawn. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
**Barrier** (1) | ***Protection*** While you aren't wearing armor, the tattoo grants you an Armor Class of 15 + your Dexterity modifier (maximum of +2). You can use a shield and still gain this benefit. | Black Agate (5gp) | 1hr / 1hr / 1.5hr
**Coiling Grasp** | ***Grasping Tendrils*** While the tattoo is on your skin, you can, as an action, cause the tattoo to extrude into inky tendrils, which reach for a creature you can see within 15 feet of you. The creature must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or take 3d6 force damage and be grappled by you. As an action, the creature can escape the grapple by succeeding on a DC 14 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. The grapple also ends if you halt it (no action required), if the creature is ever more than 15 feet away from you, or if you use this tattoo on a different creature. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
**Eldritch Claw** | ***Magical Strikes*** While the tattoo is on your skin, your unarmed strikes are considered magical for the purpose of overcoming immunity and resistance to nonmagical attacks, and you gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls with unarmed strikes. This stacks with other effects. ***Eldritch Maul*** As a bonus action, you can empower the tattoo for 1 minute. For the duration, each of your melee attacks with a weapon or an unarmed strike can reach a target up to 15 feet away from you, as inky tendrils launch toward the target. In addition, your melee attacks deal an extra 1d6 force damage on a hit. Once used, this bonus action can't be used again until the next dawn. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
**Spellwrought** (2) | This magic tattoo contains 3 charges of a 2nd level spell. The Ability modifier for this spell is +3; the Save DC is 13 and the attack bonus is +5. You can cast the spell using no material components and you regain all charges at dawn. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
**Spellwrought** (3) | This magic tattoo contains 3 charges of a 3rd level spell. The Ability modifier for this spell is +4; the Save DC is 15 and the attack bonus is +7. You can cast the spell using no material components and you regain all charges at dawn. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
**Shadowfell Brand** | ***Shadow Essence*** You gain darkvision with a range of 60 feet, and you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks. ***Shadowy Defense*** When you take damage, you can use your reaction to become insubstantial for a moment, halving the damage you take. Then the reaction can't be used again until the next sunset. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
**Spellwrought** (4) | This magic tattoo contains 2 charges of a 4th level spell. The Ability modifier for this spell is +4; the Save DC is 15 and the attack bonus is +7. You can cast the spell using no material components and you regain all charges at dawn. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
**Spellwrought** (5) | This magic tattoo contains 2 charges of a 5th level spell. The Ability modifier for this spell is +5; the Save DC is 17 and the attack bonus is +9. You can cast the spell using no material components and you regain all charges at dawn. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
**Absorbing** | ***Damage Resistance*** You have resistance to a type of damage of your choosing. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
**Barrier** (2) | ***Protection*** While you aren't wearing armor, the tattoo grants you an Armor Class of 18. You can use a shield and still gain this benefit. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
**Ghost Step** | ***Ghostly Form*** The tattoo has 3 charges, and it regains all expended charges daily at dawn. As a bonus action while the tattoo is on your skin, you can expend 1 of the tattoo's charges to become incorporeal until the end of your next turn. For the duration, you gain the following benefits: You have resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks. - You can't be grappled or restrained. - You can move through creatures and solid objects as if they were difficult terrain. If you end your turn in a solid object, you take 1d10 force damage. If the effect ends while you are inside a solid object, you instead are shunted to the nearest unoccupied space, and you take 1d10 force damage for every 5 feet traveled. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
Lifewell | Necrotic Resistance. - Life Ward. When you would be reduced to 0 hit points, you drop to 1 hit point instead. Once used, this property can't be used again until the next dawn. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
Blood Fury |Bloodthirsty Strikes. The tattoo has 10 charges, and it regains all expended charges daily at dawn. While this tattoo is on your skin, you gain the following benefits: - When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend a charge to deal an extra 4d6 necrotic damage to the target, and you regain a number of hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt. - When a creature you can see damages you, you can expend a charge and use your reaction to make a melee attack against that creature, with advantage on your attack roll. | See spell components | 1hr / 10min / 1.5hr
